
Announcing:

                 unpyc -- A Python byte-code decompiler

                      version 1.0


'unpyc' converts Python byte-code back into equivalent Python
source. It accepts byte-code from any Python version starting with 1.5
up to 2.7.

The generated source is very readable: docstrings, lists, tuples and
hashes get pretty-printed.

'unpyc' may also verify the equivalence of the generated source by
by compiling it and comparing both byte-codes.


New Features 
------------

Since Release 2.2beta1:

  * Now decompiles byte-code from Python versions 1.5 up to 2.3

  * Use the marshal and dis code from each python version to make
    decompilation independent of the interpreter unpyc runs with.
    (One can for example decompile python2.3 bytecode while running 
     under python 2.2)

  * Runs under python 2.2 and 2.3


Since Release 0.6.0:

  * Now decompiles byte-code from Python versions 1.5 up to 2.2

  * Now requires Python 2.2 but is able to decompile older byte-code,
    too. Prior version of decompile had to be run with the Python
    version which generated the byte-code.

  * pretty-prints docstrings, hashes, lists and tuples

  * unpyc is now a script and a package

  * Now adds an emacs mode-hint and tab-width to the output files

  * enhanced test suite: more test patterns, .pyc/.pyo included

  * avoids unnecessary 'global' statements

  * many internal changes and code overhouls

  Please refere to the file 'CHANGES' for a list of changes in this
  release.


Where to get it?
----------------

(Edited 3 July 2004, Ben Burton)

The original website from which this software was obtained is no longer
available.  It has now become a commercial decompilation service, with
no software available for download.

Any developers seeking to make alterations or enhancements to this code
should therefore consider these debian packages an appropriate starting
point.


Simple Help Needed!
-------------------

Please help testing 'unpyc'! 

The EXTENDED_ARG token is untested (this is a new token for Python 2.0
which is used only if many items exist within a code object). If you
have byte-code which does or may include this token, please try to
decompile your application.

It's easy: the script 'test_pythonlib' which is included in the source
           distribution does the job for you. Just read the simple
           instruction there.


Requirements
------------

'unpyc' requires Python 2.2 or later.


Known Bugs/Restrictions
-----------------------

* The EXTENDED_ARG token is untested (this is a new token for Python
  2.0 which is used only if many items exist within a code object).

* Byte-code generated by Python 2.2 differs byte-code generated by a
  prior version even for the same source. This is due the intruduction
  of iterators. Currently 'Decompyle' fails verifying the source if
  the byte-code was generated by an older version of Python.

* Verifying decompiled source with optizimzed byte code (.pyo) when
  running without optimizations (option '-O' not given) fails in most
  cases. Same is true for vis-a-versa. This is due to the fact that
  Python generated different bytecode depending on option '-O'.
